# Ownership

- Ownership is Rust's most unique feature, and it enables Rust to make memory safety guarantees without needing a garbage collector.
- Programs must track their memory usage
    - If they fail to do so, a "leak" occurs
- Rust utilizes an "ownership" model to manage memory
    - The "owner" of memory is responsible for cleaning up the memory
    - Memory can either be "moved" or "borrowed"


## Example - moving

``` rust

enum Light {
    Bright,
    Dull
}

fn display_light(light: Light) {
    match light {
        Light::Bright => println!("Bright"),
        Light::Dull => println!("Dull")
    }
}

fn main() {
    let light = Light::Bright;
    display_light(light);
    display_light(light); // error: use of moved value: `light`
}
```

- So far in our journey, we've been moving ownership around without realizing it
    - When we pass a variable to a function, we're moving ownership
- If we call the `display_light` function twice, we get an error
    1. We create a variable `light` and assign it a value. It is owned by the main function.
    2. We pass `light` to the `display_light` function. Ownership is moved to `display_light`.
    3. Now `display_light` owns `light` and can do whatever it wants with it. The `light` will get deleted once the function is done.
    4. Once the function is done, `light` is deleted. The `light` variable in the main function is now invalid. It has been moved.

## Example - borrow
In order to fix the error, we have to borrow it

``` rust
enum Light {
    Bright,
    Dull
}

fn display_light(light: &Light) {
    match light {
        Light::Bright => println!("Bright"),
        Light::Dull => println!("Dull")
    }
}

fn main() {
    let light = Light::Bright;
    display_light(&light);
    display_light(&light); // no error
}
```

- The above program has been modified to use a "borrow" instead of a "move"
- We use the ampersand (`&`) to borrow the variable
    - The `light` variable is initialized in the main function and main is the owner
    - We pass a reference to the `light` variable to the `display_light` function. The `display_light` function does not own the variable, it only has a reference to it.
    - The `display_light` function can use the variable, but it cannot delete it.
    - Once the `display_light` function is done, the `light` variable is still valid in the main function.